requestor-provider-interaction (#262)
golemfactory/golem-docs: src/pages/docs/creators/common/requestor-provider-interaction.md

---
title: How a requestor interacts with providers

> description: A description of a typical interaction between a requestor and provider, illustrated with JS SDK events.

Author: ok, some of the events are generated in task-executor, however finally the article is based on the one from golem-js to make it more universal.

type: Guide
---

# Requestor - provider interactions

This article is designed to explain some of Golem's concepts related to interactions between requestors and providers. It is illustrated with events that are emitted in the current JS SDK version. While the name of the events might be changed or different in other Golem SDKs, the basic concepts originate from Golem Network internals and stay the same.

## The basics

The requestor user defines his task in the form of a requestor script. This is a piece of code, that utilizes one of Golem SDKs to interact with the Golem Network (via Yagna demon). The Yagna service connects the user to the Golem Network and facilitates all his communications with other nodes.
On the provider side there is also a Yagna present, augmented with a provider logic ('ya-provider') that is responsible for fulfilling the provider's obligations: in case of VM payload - running the VM, passing the requestor's commands to it, and issuing billing data.

## The story

> We have run a simple requestor script employing the Task Model and logged emitted events to show you how internally Golem Network works. The events in the list below are filtered (similar events are removed to make the store more readable) and sometimes reordered to keep related topics in the same section.

Author: ```suggestion
We have run a simple requestor script employing the Task Model and logged emitted events to show you how internally Golem Network works. The events in the list below are filtered (similar events are removed to make the story more readable) and sometimes reordered to keep related topics in the same section.
```

### Demand

`DemandSubscribed`

Then the 'Demand' is sent to the network. The demand is a description of the resources and services that the requestor needs, the `payment platform` the requestor can use, together with the information on the image that the requestor intends to run on a provider.
The `payment platform` is a combination of the token, the chain where the payment transaction will be executed, and the payment driver - a tool that facilitates the payment and enables both sides to confirm that the actual payment transaction was completed.
The Yagna market module matches the demand with the offers from providers. The `offer` is a specification of the provider's resources, services, and accepted payment platforms. The pair of matched demand and offer is called a `proposal`.

### Proposal

> Then the Requestor is presented with proposals. In the example below, you can see some detailed information from the offer: the provider's details, its resources, and capabilities.

Author: I will handle this another way, the true is that while we say a proposal is a pair (demand and offer), in fact providers proposal is an offer and reference to demand/proposal and requestor proposal is a updated demand and reference to providers's offer.

  success: true
}
```

In the Task model, such a sequence will be repeated to complete all commands for a given task. Then the next task will be run. As we use the same activity (and the same VM) subsequent tasks will inherit the state of the VM from the previous one.

### Debit Note

`Debit notes` are intermediate notices on the current costs and resource usage that providers send regularly to the requestors. In the longer engagements debit notes may also trigger partial payments.
Debit notes must be timely accepted by the requestors, to confirm that they are still present in the network and engaged (this is handled by SDK logic that can be configured by the requestor user).

Note that Debit Notes are related to particular activities.

```bash
DebitNoteReceived {
  id: '8aaad984-b03a-48d4-bea4-ac49dd4394c3',
  agreementId: '0ecd3882e3460d47ff98cb5d2abb9b0ad055ae8be79074614d03102b8a81e45f',
  activityId: 'b284fcf996ed4b8da7cd1012233d23a1',
  amount: 0.0009088683599,
  amountPrecise: '0.000908868359900000',
  provider: {
    id: '0x3d34d91eb4ab14b9f4fd8ac8985f82cc9eb28a92',
    walletAddress: '0x3d34d91eb4ab14b9f4fd8ac8985f82cc9eb28a92',
    name: 'UK1-9.h'
  }
}
```

### Invoices

> The provider sends the invoice when the agreement is terminated. The agreement may be terminated by the requestor (when he has no more tasks to execute for this provider), or by the provider (i.e. agreed agreement duration would expire, or the requestor would fail to accept a `debit note` on time).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The agreement can be terminated either by the requestor, if there are no more tasks to be executed with the provider, or by the provider due to expiration of the agreed duration or the requestor's failure to timely accept a debit note. Upon termination of the agreement, the provider will send an invoice.
```

```bash
InvoiceReceived {
  id: 'ce3c9c5a-d94b-4864-a4f4-9454a33eade6',
  agreementId: '0ecd3882e3460d47ff98cb5d2abb9b0ad055ae8be79074614d03102b8a81e45f',
  amount: 0.0009088683599,
  amountPrecise: '0.000908868359900000',
  provider: {
    id: '0x3d34d91eb4ab14b9f4fd8ac8985f82cc9eb28a92',
    walletAddress: '0x3d34d91eb4ab14b9f4fd8ac8985f82cc9eb28a92',
    name: 'UK1-9.h'
  }
}
```

### Payments

> The requestor accepts the payment and the payment driver used by Yagna will handle the payment process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The requestor accepts the payment and the payment driver used by Yagna will handle the processing of the payment.
```

    walletAddress: '0x3d34d91eb4ab14b9f4fd8ac8985f82cc9eb28a92'
  }
}
```

Note that the requestor may have agreements with multiple providers at the same time and distribute its task in parallel to all of them.

### Activity

Once the agreement is confirmed by both parties, we can start the deployment of our image to run a VM. At first, the `activity` is created. You can imagine an activity as a representation of a VM instance run on a provider. In theory, you may have more than one activity under the same agreement, but at this moment typical providers offer a single one at the same time.

```bash
ActivityCreated {
  id: 'b284fcf996ed4b8da7cd1012233d23a1',
  agreementId: '0ecd3882e3460d47ff98cb5d2abb9b0ad055ae8be79074614d03102b8a81e45f'
}
```

All the time we can monitor activity status to know if the VM on the provider node is still available and running. Now it is initialized and ready for our commands.

```bash
ActivityStateChanged { id: 'b284fcf996ed4b8da7cd1012233d23a1', state: 'Initialized' }
```

### Scripts

In the task model, the chunk of work is defined as a task (function). A task is a set of commands that the requestor wants to execute to obtain desired results.

> Internally all the commands are organized as `scripts`, that are sent and executed on a provider. There are several commands (depending on the time of type of the runtime utilized) available for the requestor. For a VM, you can `start`, `deploy`, `run`, `transfer`, and `terminate`. So, as you see, even the initial image deployment is sent and executed as a `script`, but the user does not need to bother about it, as it is all handled by the Golem SDKs.

Reviewer: "depending on the time of type of the runtime utilized"

I think something is wrong here

> Internally all the commands are organized as `scripts`, that are sent and executed on a provider. There are several commands (depending on the time of type of the runtime utilized) available for the requestor. For a VM, you can `start`, `deploy`, `run`, `transfer`, and `terminate`. So, as you see, even the initial image deployment is sent and executed as a `script`, but the user does not need to bother about it, as it is all handled by the Golem SDKs.

Author: ```suggestion
Internally all the commands are organized as `scripts`, that are sent and executed on a provider. There are several commands (depending on the type of the runtime utilized) available for the requestor. For a VM, you can `start`, `deploy`, `run`, `transfer`, and `terminate`. So, as you see, even the initial image deployment is sent and executed as a `script`, but the user does not need to bother about it, as it is all handled by the Golem SDKs.
```
